==Quick start on Linux==
This is a quick way to get namecoind running on your Linux machine.

Download & extract the archive and create initial configuration files by executing namecoind:
 wget -O /tmp/namecoin.tgz http://dot-bit.org/files/namecoin_linux`getconf LONG_BIT`.tgz
 tar xfz /tmp/namecoin.tgz -C ~
 ~/namecoind

Fill in the configuration and finally start namecoind:
 NMCPASS=`openssl rand -base64 15` printf "rpcuser="$USER"\nrpcpassword="$NMCPASS >> ~/.namecoin/namecoin.conf
 ~/namecoind
Now have a look at the section ''Important commands'' on the end of this page.

== Download ==
'''[http://dot-bit.org Download namecoin]''' from the homepage and extract the archive.
== Configuration ==
Start namecoind to create the config folder:
{| class="wikitable" style="width:80%;" border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0"
!colspan="6"|Executing namecoind
|-
! Windows
! Linux
|-
| Open a [http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-8/where-is-command-prompt command prompt], switch to the directory of the extracted file and type<br /><code>namecoind</code>
| Open a [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal#Starting_a_Terminal terminal] (Ctrl+Alt+T in many desktop environments), switch to the directory of the extracted file and type<br /><code>./namecoind</code>
|}

It will tell you where to create the "namecoin.conf" file
 Warning: To use namecoind, you must set rpcpassword=<password>
 in the configuration file: /home/user/.namecoin/namecoin.conf
 If the file does not exist, create it with owner-readable-only file permissions.

{| class="wikitable" border="1"
!colspan="6"|Configuration file location
|-
! Windows
! Linux
|-
| %APPDATA%\namecoin
| ~/.namecoin
|}

Populate a file "namecoin.conf" with at least these lines:

 rpcuser=your_user
 rpcpassword=your_pass
 rpcport=8336
 daemon=1

Replace ''your_user'' and ''your_pass'' with any values of your choosing.

Also add this line if you want to solo mine:

 server=1


Now start namecoind again and you will get back to the command prompt. Namecoin runs in the background and will fetch the blockchain (which can take several hours).

To check on the progress of the download, try the ''namecoin getinfo'' command from the table below.

== Important commands ==
{| style="background:#cccc99;color:black;width:80%;" border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0" align="center"
|-
! Command
! Description
|- style="background:white; color:black"
| <code>namecoind</code>
| Start Namecoin daemon
|- style="background:white; color:black"
| <code>namecoind help</code>
| Show all available commands
|- style="background:white; color:black"
| <code>namecoind getinfo</code>
| Show various information. blocks value should match the current block count ([http://explorer.dot-bit.org/stats/block_count.txt <include src="http://explorer.dot-bit.org/stats/block_count.txt" nopre />])
|- style="background:white; color:black"
| <code>namecoind listreceivedbyaddress 0 true</code>
| List your Namecoin address on which you can receive Namecoins
|- style="background:white; color:black"
| <code>namecoind getnewaddress</code>
| Create a new Namecoin address
|- style="background:white; color:black"
| <code>namecoind name_new d/foobar</code>
| Reserve a domain name. See [[HowToRegisterAndConfigureBitDomains|this page]] for detailed instructions on how to register a domain.
|}