==Messaging System==

Draft Proposal for a Namecoin Messaging System

==Namespace==

Messages use the '''m/''' namespace

==Example==

* UserA registers m/example (via a name_new, then a name_firstupdate)
* UserA updates m/example with a new value (aka: message body), and transfer it to UserB at namecoin address NAMEaddressexampleBBBB :
** '''name_update m/example "message body goes here" NAMEaddressexampleBBBB'''
* UserB does a name_list, finds a new m/ name in the list, and reads the message.

==Message Formats==

===Simple Format===

For simple messages, no formatting is required.  The whole name value is the message body.

===Mail Format===

Example value:

 {
    "to" : "NAMEaddressexampleBBBB",
    "from" : "NAMEaddressexampleAAAA",
    "subject" : "This is the subject",
    "body" : "This is the body of the message.  Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet..." 
 }



* UserB can now reply by name_update'ing the message with a new value and transfering it to the address in the "from" field.

* Example message thread:  [http://testnet.explorer.dot-bit.org/n/1873| m/example on Namecoin Testnet ]

* Example message with base64 encoding:  [http://testnet.explorer.dot-bit.org/n/1871| m/y on Namecoin Testnet]

==Notes==

* Total value size limit is 1023 characters
* "to", "from", "subject", and "body" strings take away from the 1023 character limit.   Perhaps "t", "f", "s", and "b"  instead...
* a "name_history" type rpc command would be helpful.  Basically a combo of ''name_debug1'' and ''name_scan {name} 0'' that also returns the value of the name as it was at each transaction listed.
* a "owner_address" field added to return of "name_list" and "name_scan" would be helpful.
* The [[Personal Namespace| p/ Personal Namespace]] would be a good place to list ones receiving address for messages.